creativeshowcase/MILESTONE_04.md, before:

Milestone 04 - Final Project Documentation
===

NetID
---
tht4789

Name
---
Toshi Troyer

Repository Link
---
**Link to Repo**  
    [Repo](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer)

URL for deployed site 
---
**URL to Site**  
  [Deployed Site](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/)

URL for form 1 (Login & Registration from Milestone 2) 
---
- **Login** (same as URL to site)  
  [Login](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/)

- **Registration**  
  [Registration](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/register)
Special Instructions for Form 1
---
To register and use the site:
1. Go to register an account [here](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/register).
2. Fill in username, email, password, focus area (e.g. Film, Graphic Design), and public/private toggle.
3. After registering, you will be redirected to your portfolio page: /portfolio/[username].  
4. You can log out from there.
5. To log in again, return to `/` (homepage) and use your credentials. You can log in [here](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/).

URL for Form 2 (for current milestone)
---
(TODO: if applicable, add link to page that shows results of submitting form)

Special Instructions for Form 2
---
(TODO: if your app requires special instructions to use or if your app requires authentication, add information here; otherwise, leave blank)

URL for Form 3 (User Portfolio, Add a Category, Add a Project, Edit Portfolio from Milestone 2 and 3)
---

- **User Portfolio Link Template**  
    - User Portfolio (replace `[username]` with yours)   
    - (https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/[username])

- **Example - My Public Portfolio**  
    - [Public Portfolio - username `tht4789`](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/tht4789)

- **Add a Category**  
  - [Add a Category](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/project)

- **Add a Project**  
  - [Add a Project](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/project)

- **Edit Portfolio**  
  - [Edit Portfolio](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/settings)

Special Instructions for Form 3
---
1. Register and get logged into your personal portfolio page with your username slug path
2. Once you are logged in, you can add categories to your portfolio, projects to your categories, or update your bio in portfolio settings. 

First link to github line number(s) for constructor, HOF, etc.
---
[Use of `map` to render categories - /src/pages/portfolio/[slug].js](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/36e311352d15a94c0630ab23f3c8dd2d04e7fce4/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/%5Bslug%5D.js#L115)

Second link to github line number(s) for constructor, HOF, etc.
---
[Use of `map` to render select options - /src/pages/portfolio/project.js](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/d3b3fcb2fe5f8c5b4f06edc573957594b29a2770/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/project.js#L62)

Short description for links above
---
1. `map` is used first to transform the categories array into a list of rendered sections on the portfolio page, and then again inside each category to iterate over its projects array and render individual project details. (map is used twice in [slug].js for iterating over the categories and projects arrays.)
2. `map` is used to transform the `categories` Array into `<option>` dropdown choices for selecting a category to add a project to.  

Link to github line number(s) for schemas
---
[Link to Schemas](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/adcbba76c2b80b64a43fae31e2374708b2522d6b/creativeshowcase/src/models/db.js#L1) 

Description of research topics above with points
---
- **Authentication / Passport.js (2 points)**   
    -  Implemented user authentication and session management using Passport.js LocalStrategy in (`/lib/passport.js`) and protected API routes throughout my project, for example in (`login.js`, `me.js`, `project.js`) by nesting sessionOptions,passport.initialize(), and passport.session() to guaraentee middleware/authentication completes before anything else each time a user navigates to a form. 
- **Next.js (6 points)**  
    - Structured the entire application using Next.js, implementing dynamic nested routes like `/portfolio/[slug]` and `/portfolio/project` to support user-specific portfolio pages and project forms, while also using Next.js API routes (`/api/login.js`, `/api/project.js`) for server-side functionality and secure database operations.  
- **Tailwind.css (4 points)**
    - Used Tailwind CSS utility classes throughout the app (such as in `/portfolio/[slug].js`, `/portfolio/project.js`, `/portfolio/settings.js`, `/pages/index.js`, and `/src/components/PortfolioHeader.js`) to create fully responsive layouts, customized styled sections for categories, projects, and forms without relying on any external UI libraries.

Links to github line number(s) for research topics described above (one link per line)
---
- **Auth/Passport**
    - [Implementation in `/lib/passport.js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7d872346a83f61ad5a431142919a25e98152a539/creativeshowcase/src/lib/passport.js#L1)

- **Next.js**   
    - [Implementation in `/pages/portfolio/[slug].js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7f1bb62059f79e74d74be990674df4facfc1b255/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/%5Bslug%5D.js#L7)  
    - Next.js implementation is seen throughout the entire project (including project structure)  

- **Tailwind.css**  
    - [Implementation in `/pages/portfolio/[slug].js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7f1bb62059f79e74d74be990674df4facfc1b255/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/%5Bslug%5D.js#L95)


Optional project notes 
--- 
(TODO: optionall add add any other information required for using/testing the final project)

Attributions
---
1. **Embedding Links to New Pages (LinkedIn, Instagram)**  
   [Code Reference](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/795954fda8e7ddbf1fd9e5b113fe3b46cffe46ff/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/%5Bslug%5D.js#L101)  
   [Resource - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50709625/link-with-target-blank-and-rel-noopener-noreferrer-still-vulnerable)

2. **File Upload Using API with Formidable**  
   [Code Reference](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/d3b3fcb2fe5f8c5b4f06edc573957594b29a2770/creativeshowcase/src/pages/api/settings.js#L9)  
   [Resource - Medium Article](https://medium.com/@pradeepgudipatinextjs-typescript-file-upload-using-api-with-formidable-and-the-5-lines-that-changed-everything-980162f3da7a)

3. **File Upload Form Parsing with Formidable**  
   [Code Reference](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/36e311352d15a94c0630ab23f3c8dd2d04e7fce4/creativeshowcase/src/pages/api/project.js#L34)  
   [Resource - npmjs.com (Formidable Package)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/formidable)

4. **Passport.js LocalStrategy Implementation**  
   [Code Reference](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7d872346a83f61ad5a431142919a25e98152a539/creativeshowcase/src/lib/passport.js#L6)  
   [Resource - Passport.js LocalStrategy Documentation](https://www.passportjs.org/packages/passport-local/)

5. **Passport.js Session Handling**  
   [Code Reference 1 - Passport.js Session Setup](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7d872346a83f61ad5a431142919a25e98152a539/creativeshowcase/src/lib/passport.js#L25)  
   [Code Reference 2 - Middleware Handling within `login.js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7d872346a83f61ad5a431142919a25e98152a539/creativeshowcase/src/pages/api/login.js#L17)  
   [Resource - Passport.js Session Documentation](https://www.passportjs.org/concepts/authentication/sessions/)

Commit message:

more comments added to login.js

creativeshowcase/MILESTONE_04.md, after:

Milestone 04 - Final Project Documentation
===

NetID
---
tht4789

Name
---
Toshi Troyer

Repository Link
---
**Link to Repo**  
    [Repo](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer)

URL for deployed site 
---
**URL to Site**  
  [Deployed Site](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/)

URL for form 1 (Login & Registration from Milestone 2) 
---
- **Login** (same as URL to site)  
  [Login](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/)

- **Registration**  
  [Registration](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/register)
Special Instructions for Form 1
---
To register and use the site:
1. Go to register an account [here](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/register).
2. Fill in username, email, password, focus area (e.g. Film, Graphic Design), and public/private toggle.
3. After registering, you will be redirected to your portfolio page: /portfolio/[username].  
4. You can log out from there.
5. To log in again, return to `/` (homepage) and use your credentials. You can log in [here](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/).

URL for Form 2 (for current milestone)
---
(TODO: if applicable, add link to page that shows results of submitting form)

Special Instructions for Form 2
---
(TODO: if your app requires special instructions to use or if your app requires authentication, add information here; otherwise, leave blank)

URL for Form 3 (User Portfolio, Add a Category, Add a Project, Edit Portfolio from Milestone 2 and 3)
---

- **User Portfolio Link Template**  
    - User Portfolio (replace `[username]` with yours)   
    - (https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/[username])

- **Example - My Public Portfolio**  
    - [Public Portfolio - username `tht4789`](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/tht4789)

- **Add a Category**  
  - [Add a Category](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/project)

- **Add a Project**  
  - [Add a Project](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/project)

- **Edit Portfolio**  
  - [Edit Portfolio](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/settings)

Special Instructions for Form 3
---
1. Register and get logged into your personal portfolio page with your username slug path
2. Once you are logged in, you can add categories to your portfolio, projects to your categories, or update your bio in portfolio settings. 

First link to github line number(s) for constructor, HOF, etc.
---
[Use of `map` to render categories - /src/pages/portfolio/[slug].js](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/36e311352d15a94c0630ab23f3c8dd2d04e7fce4/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/%5Bslug%5D.js#L115)

Second link to github line number(s) for constructor, HOF, etc.
---
[Use of `map` to render select options - /src/pages/portfolio/project.js](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/d3b3fcb2fe5f8c5b4f06edc573957594b29a2770/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/project.js#L62)

Short description for links above
---
1. `map` is used first to transform the categories array into a list of rendered sections on the portfolio page, and then again inside each category to iterate over its projects array and render individual project details. (map is used twice in [slug].js for iterating over the categories and projects arrays.)
2. `map` is used to transform the `categories` Array into `<option>` dropdown choices for selecting a category to add a project to.  

Link to github line number(s) for schemas
---
[Link to Schemas](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/adcbba76c2b80b64a43fae31e2374708b2522d6b/creativeshowcase/src/models/db.js#L1) 

Description of research topics above with points
---
- **Authentication / Passport.js (2 points)**   
    -  Implemented user authentication and session management using Passport.js LocalStrategy in (`/lib/passport.js`) and protected API routes throughout my project, for example in (`login.js`, `me.js`, `project.js`) by nesting sessionOptions,passport.initialize(), and passport.session() to guaraentee middleware/authentication completes before anything else each time a user navigates to a form. 
- **Next.js (6 points)**  
    - Structured the entire application using Next.js, implementing dynamic nested routes like `/portfolio/[slug]` and `/portfolio/project` to support user-specific portfolio pages and project forms, while also using Next.js API routes (`/api/login.js`, `/api/project.js`) for server-side functionality and secure database operations.  
- **Tailwind.css (4 points)**
    - Used Tailwind CSS utility classes throughout the app (such as in `/portfolio/[slug].js`, `/portfolio/project.js`, `/portfolio/settings.js`, `/pages/index.js`, and `/src/components/PortfolioHeader.js`) to create fully responsive layouts, customized styled sections for categories, projects, and forms without relying on any external UI libraries.

Links to github line number(s) for research topics described above (one link per line)
---
- **Auth/Passport**
    - [Implementation in `/lib/passport.js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7d872346a83f61ad5a431142919a25e98152a539/creativeshowcase/src/lib/passport.js#L1)
    - [Implementation ex in API Files in `/pages/api/login`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/ceb4617c262315f3d0b7610d085360b8769647ff/creativeshowcase/src/pages/api/login.js#L18)

- **Next.js**   
    - [Implementation in `/pages/portfolio/[slug].js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7f1bb62059f79e74d74be990674df4facfc1b255/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/%5Bslug%5D.js#L7)  
    - Next.js implementation is seen throughout the entire project (including project structure)  

- **Tailwind.css**  
    - [Implementation ex in `/pages/portfolio/[slug].js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7f1bb62059f79e74d74be990674df4facfc1b255/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/%5Bslug%5D.js#L95)
    - [Implementation ex in `/pages/index.js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/ceb4617c262315f3d0b7610d085360b8769647ff/creativeshowcase/src/pages/index.js#L44)
    - [Implementation ex in `/components/PortfolioHeader.js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/ceb4617c262315f3d0b7610d085360b8769647ff/creativeshowcase/src/components/PortfolioHeader.js#L9)
    - Tailwind css is used throughout the entirety of the project for client side layout and design


Optional project notes 
--- 
(TODO: optionall add add any other information required for using/testing the final project)

Attributions
---
1. **Embedding Links to New Pages (LinkedIn, Instagram)**  
   [Code Reference](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/795954fda8e7ddbf1fd9e5b113fe3b46cffe46ff/creativeshowcase/src/pages/portfolio/%5Bslug%5D.js#L101)  
   [Resource - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50709625/link-with-target-blank-and-rel-noopener-noreferrer-still-vulnerable)

2. **File Upload Using API with Formidable**  
   [Code Reference](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/d3b3fcb2fe5f8c5b4f06edc573957594b29a2770/creativeshowcase/src/pages/api/settings.js#L9)  
   [Resource - Medium Article](https://medium.com/@pradeepgudipatinextjs-typescript-file-upload-using-api-with-formidable-and-the-5-lines-that-changed-everything-980162f3da7a)

3. **File Upload Form Parsing with Formidable**  
   [Code Reference](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/36e311352d15a94c0630ab23f3c8dd2d04e7fce4/creativeshowcase/src/pages/api/project.js#L34)  
   [Resource - npmjs.com (Formidable Package)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/formidable)

4. **Passport.js LocalStrategy Implementation**  
   [Code Reference](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7d872346a83f61ad5a431142919a25e98152a539/creativeshowcase/src/lib/passport.js#L6)  
   [Resource - Passport.js LocalStrategy Documentation](https://www.passportjs.org/packages/passport-local/)

5. **Passport.js Session Handling**  
   [Code Reference 1 - Passport.js Session Setup](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7d872346a83f61ad5a431142919a25e98152a539/creativeshowcase/src/lib/passport.js#L25)  
   [Code Reference 2 - Middleware Handling within `login.js`](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer/blob/7d872346a83f61ad5a431142919a25e98152a539/creativeshowcase/src/pages/api/login.js#L17)  
   [Resource - Passport.js Session Documentation](https://www.passportjs.org/concepts/authentication/sessions/)
