creativeshowcase/MILESTONE_02.md, before:

Milestone 02
===

Repository Link
--- 
[Click This Link](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer)


Special Instructions for Using Form
---
To register and use the site:
1. Go to `/register`
2. Fill in username, email, password, focus area (e.g. Film, Graphic Design), and public/private toggle
3. After registering, you will be redirected to your portfolio page
4. You can log out from there
5. To log in again, return to `/` (homepage) and use your credentials

URL for form 
---
(TODO: add link to a functioning form; okay to use temporary domain of your own codespaces container)

URL for form result
---
(TODO: if applicable, add link to page that shows results of submitting form)

URL to github that shows line of code where research topic(s) are used / implemented
--- 
(TODO: add link to github url that shows line or lines of code that demonstrate in progress work on at least one research topic)

References 
---
1. [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/)

Commit message:

working login/registration within codespaces

creativeshowcase/MILESTONE_02.md, after:

Milestone 02
===

[Repository Link](https://github.com/nyu-csci-ua-0467-001-002-spring-2025/final-project-deployment-toshiHTroyer)
--- 


Special Instructions for Using Form
---
To register and use the site:
1. Go to register an account [here](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/register).
2. Fill in username, email, password, focus area (e.g. Film, Graphic Design), and public/private toggle.
3. After registering, you will be redirected to your portfolio page: /portfolio/[username].  
4. You can log out from there.
5. To log in again, return to `/` (homepage) and use your credentials. You can log in [here](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/).

URL for form 
---
[Registration Form](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/register)  
[Login Form](https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/)

URL for form result
---
After successful registration or login, user is redirected to their unique site: /portfolio/[username]  
Ex: https://glowing-carnival-66qv746rvgx34v77-3000.app.github.dev/portfolio/tht4789

URL to github that shows line of code where research topic(s) are used / implemented
--- 
(TODO: add link to github url that shows line or lines of code that demonstrate in progress work on at least one research topic)

References 
---
1. [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/)
2. [Next.js API Routes Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction)
3. [Passport.js](https://www.passportjs.org/howtos/password/)
